.TH CDEMU 1 "Nov 18, 2008"
.SH NAME
cdemu \- a simple command-line CDEmu client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdemu
[options]
<command>
<command parameters>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is cdemu-client, a simple command-line client for controlling CDEmu daemon.
It is part of the userspace-cdemu suite, a free, GPL CD/DVD-ROM device emulator
for linux.

It provides a way to perform the key tasks related to controlling the CDEmu
daemon, such as loading and unloading devices, displaying devices' status and
retrieving/setting devices' debug masks.

When connecting to daemon, cdemu client can use either session or system bus. By
hard-coded default, it uses system bus. The default bus to be used can be specified
via /etc/cdemu-client.conf or ~/.cdemu-client file; for more information, please 
read README file. The default can be overriden using
.B --bus
option.
.SH ENCRYPTED IMAGES SUPPORT
As of version 1.2.0, CDEmu daemon offers support for encrypted images. When password
is required to load an image, cdemu-client will prompt for it and then send it to daemon.

NOTE, HOWEVER, THAT THE PASSWORD IS SENT OVER D-BUS IN A PLAIN STRING FORM, WITHOUT 
ANY PROTECTION. DEPENDING ON YOUR PRIVACY CONCERNS YOU MIGHT WISH TO AVOID LOADING 
SUCH IMAGES.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h --help
Displays the help message. If command is specified, help message with 
synopsis and description for that command is displayed.
.TP
.B -v --version
Prints version info and exits.
.TP
.B -b --bus
Sets the D-BUS bus type to use for connection. Valid values are \fIsession\fR
and \fIsystem\fR. If no bus is specified, the default bus is used.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP 
.B load <device> <filename> [...]
Loads the device; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired device, or \fIany\fR.
If \fIany\fR is used, then the client will attempt to load the image into the 
first empty device it finds (provided there is one available). \fBfilename\fR is 
the image filename. For multi-file images, multiple filenames can be provided.
.TP
.B unload <device>
Unloads the device; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired device, or \fIall\fR.
.TP
.B status
Displays devices' status
.TP
.B device-mapping
Displays device mapping information
.TP
.B daemon-debug-mask <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets daemon debug mask; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired 
device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new debug mask value. If this 
argument is omitted, current debug mask is displayed. A list of supported 
debug mask values can be obtained with
.B enum-daemon-debug-masks
command.
.TP
.B library-debug-mask <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets library debug mask; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired 
device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new debug mask value. If this 
argument is omitted, current debug mask is displayed. A list of supported 
debug mask values can be obtained with
.B enum-library-debug-masks
command.
.TP
.B dpm-emulation <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets DPM emulation flag. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired 
device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new value to be set. If this 
argument is ommited, currently set value is displayed.
.TP
.B tr-emulation <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets transfer rate emulation flag. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the 
desired device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new value to be set. 
If this argument is ommited, currently set value is displayed.
.TP
.B device-id <device> [new-vendor-id] [new-product-id] [new-revision] [new-vendor-specific]
Displays/sets device ID. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired device.
\fBnew-vendor-id\fR is the new vendor ID string to be set (8 characters max).
\fBnew-product-id\fR is the new product ID string to be set (16 characters max).
\fBnew-revision\fR is the new revision string to be set (4 characters max).
\fBnew-vendor-specific\fR is the new vendor-specific string to be set (20 characters max).
If new values are ommitted, currently set values are displayed.
.TP
.B enum-supported-parsers [parser_id]
Enumerates supported parsers. If \fBparser_id\fR is provided, information about 
specific parser is displayed instead.
.TP
.B enum-supported-fragments [fragment_id]
Enumerates supported fragments. If \fBfragment_id\fR is provided, information 
about specific fragment is displayed instead.
.TP
.B enum-daemon-debug-masks
Enumerates supported daemon debug masks.
.TP
.B enum-library-debug-masks
Enumerates supported library debug masks;
.TP
.B version
Displays version information
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Loading a single image to first device:
cdemu load 0 ~/image.mds
.TP
.B Loading multiple-file image to first device:
cdemu load 0 ~/session1.toc ~/session2.toc ~/session3.toc
.TP
.B Unloading first device:
cdemu load 0
.TP
.B Displaying device status:
cdemu status
.TP
.B Displaying device mapping information:
cdemu device-mapping
.TP
.B Setting daemon debug mask for the first device:
cdemu daemon-debug-mask 0 0x01
.TP
.B Obtaining library debug mask for the first device:
cdemu library-debug-mask 0
.TP
.B Disabling DPM emulation on all devices:
cdemu dpm-emulation all 0
.TP
.B Enabling transfer rate emulation on first device:
cdemu tr-emulation 0 1
.TP
.B Changing device ID of first device:
cdemu device-id 0 "MyVendor" "MyProduct" "1.0.0" "Test device ID"
.TP
.B Enumerating supported parsers:
cdemu enum-supported-parsers
.TP
.B Obtaining information about specific parser:
cdemu enum-supported-parsers PARSER-TOC
.TP
.B Enumerating supported fragments:
cdemu enum-supported-fragments
.TP
.B Obtaining information about specific fragment:
cdemu enum-supported-fragments FRAGMENT-BINARY
.TP
.B Enumerating supported daemon debug masks:
cdemu enum-daemon-debug-masks
.TP
.B Enumerating supported library debug masks:
cdemu enum-library-debug-masks
.TP
.B Displaying daemon and library version:
cdemu version
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Rok Mandeljc <rok.mandeljc@email.si>
.PP
CDEmu project's web page: http://cdemu.sourceforge.net
.PP
CDEmu project's mailing list: cdemu-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
