.TH CDEMUD 8 "May 19, 2008"
.SH NAME
cdemud \- The CDEmu daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdemud
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is CDEmu daemon, the userspace daemon part of the userspace-cdemu suite, a 
free, GPL CD/DVD-ROM device emulator for linux.

It receives SCSI commands from kernel module and processes them, passing the 
requested data back to the kernel. Daemon implements the actual virtual device; 
one instance per each device registered by kernel module. It uses libMirage, an 
image access library that is part of userspace-cdemu suite, for the image access 
(e.g. sector reading).

The daemon registers itself on D-BUS' system or session bus (depending on the
options passed to it) where it exposes an interface that can be used by clients
to control it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -k --kill
Kill daemon. This will kill a CDEmu daemon instance that is running in daemon mode.
Note that daemon running in local mode is not affected by this.
.TP
.B -d --daemonize
Daemonize. The daemon will be ran in daemon mode (i.e. forked into background, 
with PID file created  and syslog used for logging). Note that running daemon
in daemon mode automatically implies the usage of system bus. By default, daemon 
is ran in local mode.
.TP
.B -n --num-devices=N
Number of devices. Specifies the number of virtual devices the daemon instance should
register with kernel module and control
.TP
.B -c --ctl-device=path
Control device. Specifies the control device path. Control device is a character device
provided by kernel module; it is used for communication between kernel and userspace
part of CDEmu suite.
.TP
.B -a --audio-driver=driver
Audio driver. Specifies audio driver to be used by virtual devices' audio play.
Since libao is used for audio playback, any valid libao driver can be specified.
If \fBdefault\fR is used as a driver, then libao's default driver is used. Few 
examples of valid libao drivers are \fBalsa\fR, \fBoss\fR, \fBpulse\fR or \fBnull\fR. 
For all drivers, default device is used. By default, if audio driver is not explicitly
specified via this option, \fBnull\fR is used.
.TP
.B -b --bus=bus_type
Bus type. Valid options are \fBsystem\fR or \fBsession\fR. By default, system bus is used.
.TP
.B -? --help
Display the help message. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Running daemon in local mode, with PulseAudio audio driver and 4 virtual devices:
cdemud --num-devices=4 --audio-driver=pulse
.TP
.B Running daemon in local mode with 2 virtual devices and on session bus:
cdemud --num-devices=2 --bus=session
.TP
.B Running daemon in daemon mode with 8 virtual devices:
cdemud --num-devices=8 --daemonize
.TP
.B Killing a daemonized instance of daemon:
cdemud --kill
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Rok Mandeljc <rok.mandeljc@email.si>
.PP
CDEmu project's web page: http://cdemu.sourceforge.net
.PP
CDEmu project's mailing list: cdemu-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
