.TH CDEMU 1 "Jul 14, 2013"
.SH NAME
cdemu \- a simple command-line CDEmu client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdemu
[options]
<command>
<command parameters>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is cdemu, a command-line client for controlling CDEmu daemon. It is
part of the cdemu suite, a free, GPL CD/DVD-ROM device emulator
for linux.
.PP
It provides a way to perform the key tasks related to controlling the CDEmu
daemon, such as loading and unloading devices, displaying devices' status and
retrieving/setting devices' debug masks.
.PP
When connecting to daemon, cdemu client can use either session or system bus. By
hard-coded default, it uses system bus. The default bus to be used can be specified
via /etc/cdemu-client.conf or ~/.cdemu-client file; for more information, please
read README file. The default can be overridden using
.B --bus
option.
.SH ENCRYPTED IMAGES SUPPORT
CDEmu daemon offers support for encrypted images. When password
is required to load an image (and it hasn't been provided via commandline using
--password), cdemu-client will prompt for it and then send it to daemon.
.PP
NOTE, HOWEVER, THAT THE PASSWORD IS SENT OVER D-BUS IN A PLAIN STRING FORM, WITHOUT
ANY PROTECTION. DEPENDING ON YOUR PRIVACY CONCERNS YOU MIGHT WISH TO AVOID LOADING
SUCH IMAGES.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h --help
Displays the help message. If command is specified, help message with
synopsis and description for that command is displayed.
.TP
.B -v --version
Prints version info and exits.
.TP
.B -b --bus
Sets the D-BUS bus type to use for connection. Valid values are \fIsession\fR
and \fIsystem\fR. If no bus is specified, the default bus is used.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B load [parser-parameters] <device> <filename> [...]
Loads the device; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired device, or \fIany\fR.
If \fIany\fR is used, then the client will attempt to load the image into the
first empty device it finds (provided there is one available). \fBfilename\fR is
the image filename. For multi-file images, multiple filenames can be provided.

The following optional parser parameters can be passed when trying to load the
image (whether they are supported by a particular parser or not depends on the
parser implementation):

.B --password <string>
Allows a password for an encrypted image to be specified via commandline; however,
if an image requires password and it hasn't been specified via commandline, then
the client will prompt for it using standard input without echo.

.B --encoding <string>
Allows an encoding for text-based image format (such as CUE) to be specified. This
might be needed if the image descriptor file contains non-ASCII characters and does
not use Unicode.
.TP
.B create-blank [options] --writer_id=<writer-id> <device> <image_file>
Creates blank recordable disc in the specified device. \fBdevice\fR is the number
of the desired device, or \fIany\fR. If \fIany\fR is used, then the client will attempt
to load the image into the first empty device it finds (provided there is one available).
\fBimage_file\fR is the image filename/basename. A valid \fBwriter-id\fR must also be
provided. Other valid options are:

.B --medium-type <type>
Sets the blank medium type. Valid values are: cdr74, cdr80, cdr90, cdr99 and dvd+r.

.B --param="writer.parameter_id=parameter_value"
Allows user to pass additional image writer parameters. \fIparameter_id\fR must
be a valid parameter ID from image writer's parameter sheet, prefixed by "writer.".
.TP
.B unload <device>
Unloads the device; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired device, or \fIall\fR.
.TP
.B status
Displays devices' status
.TP
.B add-device
Creates another virtual device
.TP
.B remove-device
Removes the last virtual device
.TP
.B device-mapping
Displays device mapping information
.TP
.B daemon-debug-mask <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets daemon debug mask; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired
device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new debug mask value. If this
argument is omitted, current debug mask is displayed. A list of supported
debug mask values can be obtained with
.B enum-daemon-debug-masks
command.
.TP
.B library-debug-mask <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets library debug mask; \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired
device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new debug mask value. If this
argument is omitted, current debug mask is displayed. A list of supported
debug mask values can be obtained with
.B enum-library-debug-masks
command.
.TP
.B dpm-emulation <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets DPM emulation flag. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired
device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new value to be set. If this
argument is omitted, currently set value is displayed.
.TP
.B tr-emulation <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets transfer rate emulation flag. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the
desired device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new value to be set.
If this argument is omitted, currently set value is displayed.
.TP
.B bad-sector-emulation <device> [new-value]
Displays/sets bad sector emulation flag. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the
desired device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new value to be set.
If this argument is omitted, currently set value is displayed.
.TP
.B dvd-report-css <device> [new-value]
Report the loaded DVD as CSS-encrypted. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the
desired device, or \fIall\fR. \fBnew-value\fR is the new value to be set.
If this argument is omitted, currently set value is displayed.

This flag influences the generation of fake Disc Structure 0x01, and as
such works only with images of DVD videos that do not provide this
information (most images, with exception of perhaps mds/mdf, don't).
Enabling this option allows images of CSS-encrypted DVDs (e.g. created using 'dd'
or 'readcd' without running through a CSS decryption step when creating the image)
to be played by a deCSS-enabled Linux media player.
.TP
.B device-id <device> [new-vendor-id] [new-product-id] [new-revision] [new-vendor-specific]
Displays/sets device ID. \fBdevice\fR is the number of the desired device.
\fBnew-vendor-id\fR is the new vendor ID string to be set (8 characters max).
\fBnew-product-id\fR is the new product ID string to be set (16 characters max).
\fBnew-revision\fR is the new revision string to be set (4 characters max).
\fBnew-vendor-specific\fR is the new vendor-specific string to be set (20 characters max).
If new values are omitted, currently set values are displayed.
.TP
.B enum-parsers
Enumerates supported image parsers.
.TP
.B enum-writers
Enumerates supported image writers.
.TP
.B enum-filter-streams
Enumerates supported filter streams.
.TP
.B enum-daemon-debug-masks
Enumerates supported daemon debug masks.
.TP
.B enum-library-debug-masks
Enumerates supported library debug masks.
.TP
.B enum-writer-parameters <writer-id>
Retrieves and displays parameters sheet for specified image writer.
.TP
.B version
Displays version information
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Loading a single image to first device:
cdemu load 0 ~/image.mds
.TP
.B Loading multiple-file image to first device:
cdemu load 0 ~/session1.toc ~/session2.toc ~/session3.toc
.TP
.B Loading a text-based image in non-ASCII/non-Unicode encoding:
 cdemu load 0 ~/image.cue --encoding=windows-1250
.TP
.B Loading an encrypted image with password provided as an argument:
 cdemu load 0 ~/image.daa --password=seeninplain
.TP
.B Loading a raw image of a CSS-encrypted DVD created by 'dd', so it can be played by mplayer:
 cdemu load 0 ~/image.iso
 cdemu dvd-report-css 0 1
.TP
.B Creating a blank recordable disc: DVD+R SL with ISO image writer:
cdemu create-blank --writer-id=WRITER-ISO --medium-type=dvd+r 0 ~/output-image.iso
.TP
.B Creating a blank recordable disc: 80-minute CD-R with TOC image writer, with additional writer parameters:
cdemu create-blank --writer-id=WRITER-TOC --medium-type=cdr80 --param="writer.write_raw=1" --param="writer.write_subchannel=1" 0 ~/output-image.toc
.TP
.B Unloading first device:
cdemu unload 0
.TP
.B Displaying device status:
cdemu status
.TP
.B Adding another device:
cdemu add-device
.TP
.B Removing the last device:
cdemu remove-device
.TP
.B Displaying device mapping information:
cdemu device-mapping
.TP
.B Setting daemon debug mask for the first device:
cdemu daemon-debug-mask 0 0x01
.TP
.B Obtaining library debug mask for the first device:
cdemu library-debug-mask 0
.TP
.B Disabling DPM emulation on all devices:
cdemu dpm-emulation all 0
.TP
.B Enabling transfer rate emulation on first device:
cdemu tr-emulation 0 1
.TP
.B Enabling bad sector emulation on first device:
cdemu tr-emulation 0 1
.TP
.B Changing device ID of first device:
cdemu device-id 0 "MyVendor" "MyProduct" "1.0.0" "Test device ID"
.TP
.B Enumerating supported image parsers:
cdemu enum-parsers
.TP
.B Enumerating supported image writers:
cdemu enum-writers
.TP
.B Enumerating supported filter streams:
cdemu enum-filter-streams
.TP
.B Enumerating supported daemon debug masks:
cdemu enum-daemon-debug-masks
.TP
.B Enumerating supported library debug masks:
cdemu enum-library-debug-masks
.TP
.B Obtaining parameter sheet for TOC image writer:
cdemu enum-writer-parameters WRITER-TOC
.TP
.B Displaying daemon and library version:
cdemu version
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Rok Mandeljc <rok.mandeljc@gmail.com>
.PP
CDEmu project's web page: http://cdemu.sourceforge.net
.PP
CDEmu project's mailing list: cdemu-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
