.TH CDEMU-DAEMON 8 "Nov 19, 2025"
.SH NAME
cdemud \- The CDEmu daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdemu-daemon
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is CDEmu daemon, the userspace part of the cdemu suite, a
free, GPL CD/DVD-ROM device emulator for linux.

It receives SCSI commands from kernel module and processes them, passing the
requested data back to the kernel. Daemon implements the actual virtual device;
one instance per each device registered by kernel module. It uses libMirage, an
image access library that is part of the cdemu suite, for the image access
(e.g. sector reading).

The daemon registers itself on D-BUS' system or session bus (depending on the
options passed to it) where it exposes an interface that can be used by clients
to control it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --config-file=filename
Configuration file to load. See \fBConfiguration file\fR section for details.
.TP
.B -n --num-devices=N
Number of devices. Specifies the number of virtual devices the daemon instance should
register with kernel module and control. By default, 1 virtual device is created.
.TP
.B -c --ctl-device=path
Control device. Specifies the control device path. Control device is a character device
provided by kernel module; it is used for communication between kernel and userspace
part of CDEmu suite. By default, /dev/vhba_ctl is used.
.TP
.B -a --audio-driver=driver
Audio driver. Specifies audio driver to be used by virtual devices' audio play.
Since libao is used for audio playback, any valid libao driver can be specified.
If \fBdefault\fR is used as a driver, then libao's default driver is used. Few
examples of valid libao drivers are \fBalsa\fR, \fBoss\fR, \fBpulse\fR or \fBnull\fR.
For all drivers, default device is used. By default, if audio driver is not explicitly
specified via this option, \fBnull\fR is used.
.TP
.B -b --bus=bus_type
Bus type. Valid options are \fBsystem\fR or \fBsession\fR. By default, session bus is used.
(Please note that the running of CDEmu daemon on system bus is considered
deprecated and is discouraged for security reasons).
.TP
.B -l --logfile=logfile
Log file to write logging output into. By default, use of log file is disabled and messages
are written to stdout.
.TP
.B --default-cdemu-debug-mask=mask
Default debug mask for CDEmu devices (at CDEmu daemon implementation level).
Default value is 0.
.TP
.B --default-mirage-debug-mask=mask
Default debug mask for CDEmu devices (at libMirage implementation level).
Default value is 0.
.TP
.B --system-sleep-handler=0|1
Enable or disable systemd-logind system sleep handler. When enabled,
the daemon attempts to obtain delaying sleep inhibitor lock from the
\fIorg.freedesktop.login1.Manager\fR systemd-logind interface at
\fI/org/freedesktop/login1\fR on the system bus, and registers handler
for the \fIprepare-for-sleep\fR signal. When system is about to enter
suspend/hibernation (as indicated by received signal), the virtual devices
are stopped, and inhibitor lock is released. After system resumes (as
indicated by received signal), the inhibitor lock is re-acquired, and
virtual devices are restarted. This mechanism attempts to mitigate issues
with active virtual devices preventing the system from properly
suspending/hibernating. Default value is 1 (the handler is enabled). If
sleep handler functionality is disabled at build time, this option has
no effect.
.TP
.B -? --help
Display the help message.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Running daemon on default bus with PulseAudio audio driver and 4 virtual devices:
cdemu-daemon --num-devices=4 --audio-driver=pulse
.TP
.B Running daemon on system bus with 2 virtual devices and logging redirected to a file:
cdemu-daemon --num-devices=2 --bus=system --logfile=/tmp/cdemu-daemon.log
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The daemon's settings can be collected in a configuration file, which
is passed to the daemon via \fB--config-file\fR option. Configuration
file contains \fBkey=value\fR pairs that are contained in a single
\fB[settings]\fR section. The keys in configuration file correspond to
the long names of command-line switches.

If an option is specified in both configuration file and on command-line,
the latter takes precedence.

If the specified configuration file does not exist, it is silently ignored.
If the specified configuration file is invalid (e.g., has invalid syntax,
or does not contain a section), an error is raised.

.B Example

Saving the following configuration to a file and passing it to the daemon
via \fB--config-file\fR is equivalent to passing \fB--num-devices=2
--audio-driver=pulse\fR directly to the daemon:

.RS\fB
[settings]
.br
num-devices=2
.br
audio-driver=pulse
\fR
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Rok Mandeljc <rok.mandeljc@gmail.com>
.PP
CDEmu project's web page: http://cdemu.sourceforge.net
.PP
CDEmu project's mailing list: cdemu-devel@lists.sourceforge.net
